---
id: parameters
title: Command-line options
sidebar_label: Command-line options
description: Complete reference of all Prysm command-line flags for beacon-chain, validator, prysmctl, and client-stats, with descriptions and defaults.
content_type: reference
---

import {HeaderBadgesWidget} from '@site/src/components/HeaderBadgesWidget.js';

<HeaderBadgesWidget commaDelimitedContributors="Raul,James" />

Prysm's client software can be configured using flags and YAML files. This document provides a comprehensive list of all available flags and their descriptions. The flag descriptions that you see in this document are generated from code comments within the latest Prysm release.

## Beacon node flags

{/* cli-flags:beacon-chain START — auto-generated by scripts/generate-cli-reference.mjs, do not edit by hand */}

```
NAME:
   beacon-chain - this is a beacon chain implementation for Ethereum
USAGE:
   beacon-chain [options] command [command options] [arguments...]
   
AUTHOR:
   
   
GLOBAL OPTIONS:
   db                    Defines commands for interacting with the Ethereum Beacon Node database
   generate-auth-secret  creates a random, 32 byte hex string in a plaintext file to be used for authenticating JSON-RPC requests. If no --output-file flag is defined, the file will be created in the current working directory
   completion            Generate shell completion scripts
   help, h               Shows a list of commands or help for one command
   
cmd OPTIONS:
   --accept-terms-of-use  Accepts Terms and Conditions (for non-interactive environments). (default: false)
   --config-file value    Filepath to a yaml file with flag values.
   
beacon-chain OPTIONS:
   --api-timeout value                                            Specifies the timeout value for API requests in seconds. (default: 10s)
   --batch-verifier-limit value                                   Maximum number of signatures to batch verify at once for beacon attestation p2p gossip. (default: 1000)
   --chain-config-file value                                      Path to a YAML file with chain config values.
   --chain-id value                                               Sets the chain id of the beacon chain (default: 0)
   --disable-debug-rpc-endpoints                                  Disables the debug Beacon API namespace. (default: false)
   --e2e-config                                                   Enables the E2E testing config, only for use within end-to-end testing. (default: false)
   --grpc-max-msg-size value                                      WARNING: The gRPC API will remain the default and fully supported through v8 (expected in 2026) but will be eventually removed in favor of REST API..
                                                                    Integer to define max receive message call size (in bytes).
                                                                    If serving a public gRPC server, set this to a more reasonable size to avoid
                                                                    resource exhaustion from large messages. 
                                                                    Validators with as many as 10000 keys can be run with a max message size of less than 
                                                                    50Mb. The default here is set to a very high value for local users. (default: 2147483647)
   --http-cors-domain value, --grpc-gateway-corsdomain value      Comma separated list of domains from which to accept cross origin requests. (default: "http://localhost:3000, http://0.0.0.0:3000, http://127.0.0.1:3000, http://localhost:4200, http://127.0.0.1:4200, http://0.0.0.0:4200, http://localhost:7500, http://127.0.0.1:7500, http://0.0.0.0:7500")
   --http-host value, --grpc-gateway-host value                   Host on which the HTTP server runs on. (default: "127.0.0.1")
   --http-port value, --grpc-gateway-port value                   Port on which the HTTP server runs on. (default: 3500)
   --minimal-config                                               Uses minimal config with parameters as defined in the spec. (default: false)
   --network-id value                                             Sets the network id of the beacon chain. (default: 0)
   --postpone-shutdown-for-proposals                              On a graceful shutdown signal (SIGINT/SIGTERM, e.g. Ctrl-C on Linux), postpone shutdown if a connected validator client must propose a block in the next 2 epochs. Send the signal again to force the node to stop immediately. (default: false)
   --rpc-host value                                               Host on which the RPC server should listen (default: "127.0.0.1")
   --rpc-max-page-size value                                      Max number of items returned per page in RPC responses for paginated endpoints. (default: 0)
   --rpc-port value                                               RPC port exposed by a beacon node (default: 4000)
   --state-diff-exponents value [ --state-diff-exponents value ]  A comma-separated list of exponents (of 2) in decreasing order, defining the state diff hierarchy levels. The last exponent must be greater than or equal to 5. (default: 21, 18, 16, 13, 11, 9, 5)
   --tls-cert value                                               Certificate for secure gRPC. Pass this and the tls-key flag in order to use gRPC securely.
   --tls-key value                                                Key for secure gRPC. Pass this and the tls-cert flag in order to use gRPC securely.
   
p2p OPTIONS:
   --blob-batch-limit value                                               The amount of blobs the local peer is bounded to request and respond to in a batch. (default: 384)
   --blob-batch-limit-burst-factor value                                  The factor by which blob batch limit may increase on burst. (default: 3)
   --block-batch-limit value                                              The amount of blocks the local peer is bounded to request and respond to in a batch. Maximum 128 (default: 64)
   --block-batch-limit-burst-factor value                                 The factor by which block batch limit may increase on burst. (default: 2)
   --bootstrap-node value [ --bootstrap-node value ]                      The enr/enode address of bootstrap node. Beacon node will connect for peer discovery via DHT. Multiple nodes can be passed by using the flag multiple times but not comma-separated. You can also pass YAML files containing multiple nodes. (default: "enr:-KG4QNTx85fjxABbSq_Rta9wy56nQ1fHK0PewJbGjLm1M4bMGx5-3Qq4ZX2-iFJ0pys_O90sVXNNOxp2E7afBsGsBrgDhGV0aDKQu6TalgMAAAD__________4JpZIJ2NIJpcIQEnfA2iXNlY3AyNTZrMaECGXWQ-rQ2KZKRH1aOW4IlPDBkY4XDphxg9pxKytFCkayDdGNwgiMog3VkcIIjKA", "enr:-KG4QF4B5WrlFcRhUU6dZETwY5ZzAXnA0vGC__L1Kdw602nDZwXSTs5RFXFIFUnbQJmhNGVU6OIX7KVrCSTODsz1tK4DhGV0aDKQu6TalgMAAAD__________4JpZIJ2NIJpcIQExNYEiXNlY3AyNTZrMaECQmM9vp7KhaXhI-nqL_R0ovULLCFSFTa9CPPSdb1zPX6DdGNwgiMog3VkcIIjKA", "enr:-Ku4QImhMc1z8yCiNJ1TyUxdcfNucje3BGwEHzodEZUan8PherEo4sF7pPHPSIB1NNuSg5fZy7qFsjmUKs2ea1Whi0EBh2F0dG5ldHOIAAAAAAAAAACEZXRoMpD1pf1CAAAAAP__________gmlkgnY0gmlwhBLf22SJc2VjcDI1NmsxoQOVphkDqal4QzPMksc5wnpuC3gvSC8AfbFOnZY_On34wIN1ZHCCIyg", "enr:-Ku4QP2xDnEtUXIjzJ_DhlCRN9SN99RYQPJL92TMlSv7U5C1YnYLjwOQHgZIUXw6c-BvRg2Yc2QsZxxoS_pPRVe0yK8Bh2F0dG5ldHOIAAAAAAAAAACEZXRoMpD1pf1CAAAAAP__________gmlkgnY0gmlwhBLf22SJc2VjcDI1NmsxoQMeFF5GrS7UZpAH2Ly84aLK-TyvH-dRo0JM1i8yygH50YN1ZHCCJxA", "enr:-Ku4QPp9z1W4tAO8Ber_NQierYaOStqhDqQdOPY3bB3jDgkjcbk6YrEnVYIiCBbTxuar3CzS528d2iE7TdJsrL-dEKoBh2F0dG5ldHOIAAAAAAAAAACEZXRoMpD1pf1CAAAAAP__________gmlkgnY0gmlwhBLf22SJc2VjcDI1NmsxoQMw5fqqkw2hHC4F5HZZDPsNmPdB1Gi8JPQK7pRc9XHh-oN1ZHCCKvg", "enr:-Jq4QItoFUuug_n_qbYbU0OY04-np2wT8rUCauOOXNi0H3BWbDj-zbfZb7otA7jZ6flbBpx1LNZK2TDebZ9dEKx84LYBhGV0aDKQtTA_KgEAAAD__________4JpZIJ2NIJpcISsaa0ZiXNlY3AyNTZrMaEDHAD2JKYevx89W0CcFJFiskdcEzkH_Wdv9iW42qLK79ODdWRwgiMo", "enr:-Jq4QN_YBsUOqQsty1OGvYv48PMaiEt1AzGD1NkYQHaxZoTyVGqMYXg0K9c0LPNWC9pkXmggApp8nygYLsQwScwAgfgBhGV0aDKQtTA_KgEAAAD__________4JpZIJ2NIJpcISLosQxiXNlY3AyNTZrMaEDBJj7_dLFACaxBfaI8KZTh_SSJUjhyAyfshimvSqo22WDdWRwgiMo", "enr:-Ku4QHqVeJ8PPICcWk1vSn_XcSkjOkNiTg6Fmii5j6vUQgvzMc9L1goFnLKgXqBJspJjIsB91LTOleFmyWWrFVATGngBh2F0dG5ldHOIAAAAAAAAAACEZXRoMpC1MD8qAAAAAP__________gmlkgnY0gmlwhAMRHkWJc2VjcDI1NmsxoQKLVXFOhp2uX6jeT0DvvDpPcU8FWMjQdR4wMuORMhpX24N1ZHCCIyg", "enr:-Ku4QG-2_Md3sZIAUebGYT6g0SMskIml77l6yR-M_JXc-UdNHCmHQeOiMLbylPejyJsdAPsTHJyjJB2sYGDLe0dn8uYBh2F0dG5ldHOIAAAAAAAAAACEZXRoMpC1MD8qAAAAAP__________gmlkgnY0gmlwhBLY-NyJc2VjcDI1NmsxoQORcM6e19T1T9gi7jxEZjk_sjVLGFscUNqAY9obgZaxbIN1ZHCCIyg", "enr:-Ku4QPn5eVhcoF1opaFEvg1b6JNFD2rqVkHQ8HApOKK61OIcIXD127bKWgAtbwI7pnxx6cDyk_nI88TrZKQaGMZj0q0Bh2F0dG5ldHOIAAAAAAAAAACEZXRoMpC1MD8qAAAAAP__________gmlkgnY0gmlwhDayLMaJc2VjcDI1NmsxoQK2sBOLGcUb4AwuYzFuAVCaNHA-dy24UuEKkeFNgCVCsIN1ZHCCIyg", "enr:-Ku4QEWzdnVtXc2Q0ZVigfCGggOVB2Vc1ZCPEc6j21NIFLODSJbvNaef1g4PxhPwl_3kax86YPheFUSLXPRs98vvYsoBh2F0dG5ldHOIAAAAAAAAAACEZXRoMpC1MD8qAAAAAP__________gmlkgnY0gmlwhDZBrP2Jc2VjcDI1NmsxoQM6jr8Rb1ktLEsVcKAPa08wCsKUmvoQ8khiOl_SLozf9IN1ZHCCIyg", "enr:-LK4QA8FfhaAjlb_BXsXxSfiysR7R52Nhi9JBt4F8SPssu8hdE1BXQQEtVDC3qStCW60LSO7hEsVHv5zm8_6Vnjhcn0Bh2F0dG5ldHOIAAAAAAAAAACEZXRoMpC1MD8qAAAAAP__________gmlkgnY0gmlwhAN4aBKJc2VjcDI1NmsxoQJerDhsJ-KxZ8sHySMOCmTO6sHM3iCFQ6VMvLTe948MyYN0Y3CCI4yDdWRwgiOM", "enr:-LK4QKWrXTpV9T78hNG6s8AM6IO4XH9kFT91uZtFg1GcsJ6dKovDOr1jtAAFPnS2lvNltkOGA9k29BUN7lFh_sjuc9QBh2F0dG5ldHOIAAAAAAAAAACEZXRoMpC1MD8qAAAAAP__________gmlkgnY0gmlwhANAdd-Jc2VjcDI1NmsxoQLQa6ai7y9PMN5hpLe5HmiJSlYzMuzP7ZhwRiwHvqNXdoN0Y3CCI4yDdWRwgiOM")
   --data-column-batch-limit value                                        The amount of data columns the local peer is bounded to request and respond to in a batch. (default: 4096)
   --data-column-batch-limit-burst-factor value                           The factor by which data column batch limit may increase on burst. (default: 4)
   --enable-upnp                                                          Enable the service (Beacon chain or Validator) to use UPnP when possible. (default: false)
   --max-concurrent-dials value                                           Sets the maximum number of peers that a node will attempt to dial with from discovery. By default we will dials as many peers as possible. (default: 0)
   --min-sync-peers value                                                 The required number of valid peers to connect with before syncing. (default: 3)
   --minimum-peers-per-subnet value                                       Sets the minimum number of peers that a node will attempt to peer with that are subscribed to a subnet. (default: 6)
   --no-discovery                                                         Enable only local network p2p and do not connect to cloud bootstrap nodes (default: false)
   --p2p-allowlist value                                                  The CIDR subnet for allowing only certain peer connections. Using "public" would allow only public subnets. Example: 192.168.0.0/16 would permit connections to peers on your local network only. The default is to accept all connections.
   --p2p-colocation-whitelist value [ --p2p-colocation-whitelist value ]  CIDR addresses to exempt from gossip sub IP colocation restrictions. Can be specified multiple times. Example: 192.168.1.1/32 would exempt that specific IP from colocation restrictions.
   --p2p-denylist value [ --p2p-denylist value ]                          The CIDR subnets for denying certainty peer connections. Using "private" would deny all private subnets. Example: 192.168.0.0/16 would deny connections from peers on your local network only. The default is to accept all connections.
   --p2p-host-dns value                                                   The DNS address advertised by libp2p. This may be used to advertise an external DNS.
   --p2p-host-ip value                                                    The IP address advertised by libp2p. This may be used to advertise an external IP.
   --p2p-local-ip value                                                   The local ip address to listen for incoming data.
   --p2p-max-peers value                                                  The max number of p2p peers to maintain. (default: 70)
   --p2p-priv-key value                                                   The file containing the private key to use in communications with other peers.
   --p2p-quic-port value                                                  The QUIC port used by libp2p. (default: 13000)
   --p2p-static-id                                                        Enables the peer id of the node to be fixed by saving the generated network key to the default key path. (default: false)
   --p2p-tcp-port value                                                   The TCP port used by libp2p. (default: 13000)
   --p2p-udp-port value                                                   The UDP port used by the discovery service discv5. (default: 12000)
   --partial-data-columns                                                 Enable cell-level dissemination for PeerDAS data columns (default: false)
   --peer value [ --peer value ]                                          Connect with this peer, this flag may be used multiple times. This peer is recognized as a trusted peer.Accepts enode, multiaddr, and enr formats.
   --pubsub-queue-size value                                              The size of the pubsub validation and outbound queue for the node. (default: 1000)
   --relay-node value                                                     The address of relay node. The beacon node will connect to the relay node and advertise their address via the relay node to other peers
   --semi-supernode                                                       Custodies just enough data to serve the blobs and blob sidecars beacon API. Cannot be used with --supernode. (default: false)
   --subscribe-all-subnets                                                Subscribe to all possible attestation and sync subnets. (default: false)
   --supernode, --subscribe-all-data-subnets                              Custodies all data. Cannot be used with --semi-supernode. (default: false)
   
db OPTIONS:
   --backfill-batch-size value                                         Number of blocks per backfill batch. A larger number will request more blocks at once from peers, but also consume more system memory to hold batches in memory during processing. This has a multiplicative effect with backfill-worker-count. (default: 32)
   --backfill-oldest-slot value                                        Specifies the oldest slot that backfill should download. If this value is greater than current_slot - MIN_EPOCHS_FOR_BLOCK_REQUESTS, it will be ignored with a warning log. (default: 0)
   --backfill-worker-count value                                       Number of concurrent backfill batch requests. A larger number will better utilize network resources, up to a system-dependent limit, but will also consume more system memory to hold batches in memory during processing. Multiply by backfill-batch-size and average block size (~2MB before deneb) to find the right number for your system. This has a multiplicative effect with backfill-batch-size. (default: 2)
   --beacon-db-pruning                                                 Enables pruning of beacon db beyond MIN_EPOCHS_FOR_BLOCK_REQUESTS duration. This is an opt-in feature, and should only be enabled if operators doesn't require historical data. (default: false)
   --blob-path value                                                   Location for blob storage. Default location will be a 'blobs' directory next to the beacon db.
   --blob-retention-epochs value, --extend-blob-retention-epoch value  Override the default blob retention period (measured in epochs). The node will exit with an error at startup if the value is less than the default of 4096 epochs. (default: 4096)
   --blob-storage-layout value                                         Dictates how to organize the blob directory structure on disk, available options are: flat, by-epoch. (default: "by-epoch", unless a different existing layout is detected)
   --clear-db                                                          Prompt for clearing any previously stored data at the data directory. (default: false)
   --data-column-path value                                            Location for data column storage. Default location will be a 'data-columns' directory next to the beacon db.
   --datadir value                                                     Data directory for the databases. (default: "/root/.eth2")
   --enable-backfill, --enable-experimental-backfill                   Backfill will only be enabled when this flag is specified on a node using checkpoint sync. (default: false)
   --force-clear-db                                                    Clears any previously stored data at the data directory. (default: false)
   --pruner-retention-epochs value                                     Specifies the retention period for the pruner service in terms of epochs. If this value is less than MIN_EPOCHS_FOR_BLOCK_REQUESTS, it will be ignored. (default: 0)
   --restore-source-file value                                         Filepath to the backed-up database file which will be used to restore the database
   --restore-target-dir value                                          Target directory of the restored database (default: "/root/.eth2")
   --slots-per-archive-point value                                     The slot durations of when an archived state gets saved in the beaconDB. (default: 2048)
   
builder OPTIONS:
   --disable-builder-ssz                         Disables SSZ encoding for Builder API requests and responses, using JSON instead. (default: false)
   --http-mev-relay value                        A MEV builder relay string http endpoint, this will be used to interact MEV builder network using API defined in: https://ethereum.github.io/builder-specs/#/Builder
   --local-block-value-boost value               A percentage boost for local block construction as a Uint64. This is used to prioritize local block construction over relay/builder block constructionBoost is an additional percentage to multiple local block value. Use builder block if: builder_bid_value * 100 > local_block_value * (local-block-value-boost + 100) (default: 10)
   --max-builder-consecutive-missed-slots value  Number of consecutive skip slot to fallback from using relay/builder to local execution engine for block construction (default: 3)
   --max-builder-epoch-missed-slots value        Number of total skip slot to fallback from using relay/builder to local execution engine for block construction in last epoch rolling window. The values are on the basis of the networks and the default value for mainnet is 5. (default: 0)
   --min-builder-bid value                       An absolute value in Gwei that the builder bid has to have in order for this beacon node to use the builder's block. Anything less than this value and the beacon will revert to local building. (default: 0)
   --min-builder-to-local-difference value       An absolute value in Gwei that the builder bid has to have in order for this beacon node to use the builder's block. Anything less than this value and the beacon will revert to local building. (default: 0)
   --suggested-fee-recipient value               Post bellatrix, this address will receive the transaction fees produced by any blocks from this node. Default to junk whilst bellatrix is in development state. Validator client can override this value through the preparebeaconproposer api. (default: "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000")
   
sync OPTIONS:
   --checkpoint-block value                                Rather than syncing from genesis, you can start processing from a ssz-serialized BeaconState+Block. This flag allows you to specify a local file containing the checkpoint Block to load.
   --checkpoint-state value                                Rather than syncing from genesis, you can start processing from a ssz-serialized BeaconState+Block. This flag allows you to specify a local file containing the checkpoint BeaconState to load.
   --checkpoint-sync-url value                             URL of a synced beacon node to trust in obtaining checkpoint sync data. As an additional safety measure, it is strongly recommended to only use this option in conjunction with --weak-subjectivity-checkpoint flag
   --genesis-beacon-api-url value                          URL of a synced beacon node to trust for obtaining genesis state. As an additional safety measure, it is strongly recommended to only use this option in conjunction with --weak-subjectivity-checkpoint flag
   --genesis-state value                                   Load a genesis state from ssz file. Testnet genesis files can be found in the eth2-clients/eth2-testnets repository on github.
   --weak-subjectivity-checkpoint block_root:epoch_number  Input in block_root:epoch_number format. This guarantees that syncing leads to the given Weak Subjectivity Checkpoint along the canonical chain. If such a sync is not possible, the node will treat it as a critical and irrecoverable failure
   
execution layer OPTIONS:
   --contract-deployment-block value        The eth1 block in which the deposit contract was deployed. (default: 11184524)
   --deposit-contract value                 Deposit contract address. Beacon chain node will listen logs coming from the deposit contract to determine when validator is eligible to participate. (default: "0x00000000219ab540356cBB839Cbe05303d7705Fa")
   --engine-endpoint-timeout-seconds value  Sets the execution engine timeout (seconds) for execution payload semantics (forkchoiceUpdated, newPayload) (default: 0)
   --eth1-header-req-limit value            Sets the maximum number of headers that a deposit log query can fetch. (default: 1000)
   --execution-endpoint value               An execution client http endpoint. Can contain auth header as well in the format (default: "http://localhost:8551")
   --execution-headers value                A comma separated list of key value pairs to pass as HTTP headers for all execution client calls. Example: --execution-headers=key1=value1,key2=value2
   --interop-eth1data-votes                 Enable mocking of eth1 data votes for proposers to package into blocks (default: false)
   --jwt-id value                           JWT claims id. Could be used to identify the client
   --jwt-secret value                       REQUIRED if connecting to an execution node via HTTP. Provides a path to a file containing a hex-encoded string representing a 32 byte secret used for authentication with an execution node via HTTP. If this is not set, all requests to execution nodes via HTTP for consensus-related calls will fail, which will prevent your validators from performing their duties. This is not required if using an IPC connection.
   
monitoring OPTIONS:
   --disable-monitoring                                 Disables monitoring service. (default: false)
   --enable-tracing                                     Enables OpenTelemetry tracing. (default: false)
   --monitor-indices value [ --monitor-indices value ]  List of validator indices to track performance
   --monitoring-host value                              Host used for listening and responding metrics for prometheus. (default: "127.0.0.1")
   --monitoring-port value                              Port used to listening and respond metrics for Prometheus. (default: 8080)
   --trace-sample-fraction value                        Head-sampling ratio applied to every trace started by the process. 1.0 keeps all traces. (default: 0.2)
   --tracing-endpoint value                             OTLP/HTTP endpoint that traces are exported to (e.g. an OpenTelemetry Collector or a Tempo receiver). (default: "http://127.0.0.1:14268/api/traces")
   --tracing-process-name process_name                  Name to apply to tracing tag process_name.
   
slasher OPTIONS:
   --historical-slasher-node  Enables required flags for serving historical data to a slasher client. Results in additional storage usage (default: false)
   --slasher                  Enables a slasher in the beacon node for detecting slashable offenses. (default: false)
   --slasher-datadir value    Directory for the slasher database (default: "/root/.eth2")
   
log OPTIONS:
   --disable-ephemeral-log-file                 Disables the creation of a debug log file that keeps 24 hours of logs. (default: false)
   --disable-log-colors                         Disable color formatting for terminal logs. (default: false)
   --log-file value                             Specifies log file name, relative or absolute.
   --log-format value                           Specifies log formatting. Supports: text, json, fluentd, journald. (default: "text")
   --log.vmodule value [ --log.vmodule value ]  Per-package log verbosity. packagePath=level entries separated by commas.
   --verbosity value                            Logging verbosity. (trace, debug, info, warn, error, fatal, panic) (default: "info")
   
features OPTIONS:
   --blacklist-roots value [ --blacklist-roots value ]  A comma-separatted list of 0x-prefixed hexstrings. Declares blocks with the given blockroots to be invalid. It downscores peers that send these blocks.
   --blob-save-fsync                                    Forces new blob files to be fysnc'd before continuing, ensuring durable blob writes. (default: false)
   --dev                                                Enables experimental features still in development. These features may not be stable. (default: false)
   --disable-broadcast-slashings                        Disables broadcasting slashings submitted to the beacon node. (default: false)
   --disable-grpc-connection-logging                    WARNING: The gRPC API will remain the default and fully supported through v8 (expected in 2026) but will be eventually removed in favor of REST API..
                                                          Disables displaying logs for newly connected grpc clients. (default: false)
   --disable-last-epoch-targets                         Deprecated: disables processing of last epoch targets. (default: false)
   --disable-peer-scorer                                (Danger): Disables P2P peer scorer. Do NOT use this in production! (default: false)
   --disable-quic                                       Disables connecting using the QUIC protocol with peers. (default: false)
   --disable-registration-cache                         Temporary flag for disabling the validator registration cache instead of using the DB. Note: registrations do not clear on restart while using the DB. (default: false)
   --disable-resource-manager                           Disables running the libp2p resource manager. (default: false)
   --disable-staking-contract-check                     Disables checking of staking contract deposits when proposing blocks, useful for devnets. (default: false)
   --disable-verbose-sig-verification                   Disables identifying invalid signatures if batch verification fails when processing block. (default: false)
   --enable-discovery-reboot                            Experimental: Enables the discovery listener to rebooted in the event of connectivity issues. (default: false)
   --enable-experimental-attestation-pool               Enables an experimental attestation pool design. (default: false)
   --enable-full-ssz-data-logging                       Enables displaying logs for full ssz data on rejected gossip messages. (default: false)
   --enable-hashtree                                    (Experimental): Enables the hashtree hashing library. (default: false)
   --enable-historical-state-representation             Enables the beacon chain to save historical states in a space efficient manner. (Warning): Once enabled, this feature migrates your database in to a new schema and there is no going back. At worst, your entire database might get corrupted. (default: false)
   --enable-light-client                                Enables the light client support in the beacon node (default: false)
   --enable-proposer-preprocessing                      Enables proposer pre-processing of blocks before proposing. (default: false)
   --enable-state-diff                                  Enables the experimental state diff feature. (default: false)
   --holesky                                            Runs Prysm configured for the Holesky test network. (default: false)
   --hoodi                                              Runs Prysm configured for the Hoodi test network. (default: false)
   --ignore-unviable-attestations                       Ignores attestations whose target state is not viable with respect to the current head (avoid expensive state replay from lagging attesters). (default: false)
   --interop-write-ssz-state-transitions                Writes SSZ states to disk after attempted state transitio. (default: false)
   --mainnet                                            Runs on Ethereum main network. This is the default and can be omitted. (default: true)
   --prepare-all-payloads                               Informs the engine to prepare all local payloads. Useful for relayers and builders. (default: false)
   --save-full-execution-payloads                       Saves beacon blocks with full execution payloads instead of execution payload headers in the database. (default: false)
   --save-invalid-blob-temp                             Writes invalid blobs to temp directory. (default: false)
   --save-invalid-block-temp                            Writes invalid blocks to temp directory. (default: false)
   --sepolia                                            Runs Prysm configured for the Sepolia test network. (default: false)
   --sync-from value                                    Forces the head of the beacon chain to a specific block root. Values can be 'head' or a block root. The block root has to be known to the beacon node and correspond to a block newer than the current finalized checkpoint.
   --track-equivocations                                Records proposer equivocations observed on gossip and marks the slot in forkchoice if the equivocation arrives before the configured early deadline. (default: false)
   
merge OPTIONS:
   --terminal-block-hash-epoch-override value  Sets the block hash epoch to manual overrides the default TERMINAL_BLOCK_HASH_ACTIVATION_EPOCH value. WARNING: This flag should be used only if you have a clear understanding that community has decided to override the terminal block hash activation epoch. Incorrect usage will result in your node experience consensus failure. (default: 0)
   --terminal-block-hash-override value        Sets the block hash to manual overrides the default TERMINAL_BLOCK_HASH value. WARNING: This flag should be used only if you have a clear understanding that community has decided to override the terminal block hash. Incorrect usage will result in your node experience consensus failure.
   --terminal-total-difficulty-override value  Sets the total difficulty to manual overrides the default TERMINAL_TOTAL_DIFFICULTY value. WARNING: This flag should be used only if you have a clear understanding that community has decided to override the terminal difficulty. Incorrect usage will result in your node experience consensus failure.
   
deprecated OPTIONS:
   
debug OPTIONS:
   --blockprofilerate value                                Turns on block profiling with the given rate. (default: 0)
   --gc-percent value                                      The percentage of freshly allocated data to live data on which the gc will be run again. (default: 100)
   --healthz-max-goroutines value, --max-goroutines value  The /healthz endpoint reports the node as unhealthy if the average goroutine count during a 10 slots window exceeds this threshold. (default: 5000)
   --memprofilerate value                                  Turns on memory profiling with the given rate. (default: 524288)
   --mutexprofilefraction value                            Turns on mutex profiling with the given rate. (default: 0)
   --pprof                                                 Enables the pprof HTTP server. (default: false)
   --pprofaddr value                                       pprof HTTP server listening interface. (default: "127.0.0.1")
   --pprofport value                                       pprof HTTP server listening port. (default: 6060)
```

{/* cli-flags:beacon-chain END */}

## Validator flags

:::tip Graffiti

You can use the `--graffiti` validator flag to add a string to your proposed blocks, which will be seen on the block explorer (i.e., `<startup command> --graffiti "Prysm is awesome!"`)

:::

{/* cli-flags:validator START — auto-generated by scripts/generate-cli-reference.mjs, do not edit by hand */}

```
NAME:
   validator - Launches an Ethereum validator client that interacts with a beacon chain, starts proposer and attester services, p2p connections, and more.

USAGE:
   validator [options] command [command options] [arguments...]

VERSION:
  Prysm/v7.1.6/1fc46453cf9dfb3aaf2a80f9f90f87f96e89cdd3. Built at: 2026-07-01 13:13:22+00:00

global OPTIONS:
   wallet                       Defines commands for interacting with Ethereum validator wallets.
   accounts                     Defines commands for interacting with Ethereum validator accounts.
   slashing-protection-history  Defines commands for interacting your validator's slashing protection history.
   db                           Defines commands for interacting with the Prysm validator database.
   web                          Defines commands for interacting with the Prysm web interface.
   completion                   Generate shell completion scripts
   help, h                      Shows a list of commands or help for one command
   
cmd OPTIONS:
  --accept-terms-of-use                        Accepts Terms and Conditions (for non-interactive environments). (default: false)
  --api-timeout value                          Specifies the timeout value for API requests in seconds. (default: 10s)
  --chain-config-file value                    Path to a YAML file with chain config values.
  --clear-db                                   Prompt for clearing any previously stored data at the data directory. (default: false)
  --config-file value                          Filepath to a yaml file with flag values.
  --datadir value                              Data directory for the databases. (default: "/root/.eth2")
  --disable-ephemeral-log-file                 Disables the creation of a debug log file that keeps 24 hours of logs. (default: false)
  --disable-log-colors                         Disable color formatting for terminal logs. (default: false)
  --disable-monitoring                         Disables monitoring service. (default: false)
  --e2e-config                                 Enables the E2E testing config, only for use within end-to-end testing. (default: false)
  --enable-tracing                             Enables OpenTelemetry tracing. (default: false)
  --force-clear-db                             Clears any previously stored data at the data directory. (default: false)
  --grpc-max-msg-size value                    WARNING: The gRPC API will remain the default and fully supported through v8 (expected in 2026) but will be eventually removed in favor of REST API..
                                                 Integer to define max receive message call size (in bytes).
                                                 If serving a public gRPC server, set this to a more reasonable size to avoid
                                                 resource exhaustion from large messages. 
                                                 Validators with as many as 10000 keys can be run with a max message size of less than 
                                                 50Mb. The default here is set to a very high value for local users. (default: 2147483647)
  --log-file value                             Specifies log file name, relative or absolute.
  --log-format value                           Specifies log formatting. Supports: text, json, fluentd, journald. (default: "text")
  --log.vmodule value [ --log.vmodule value ]  Per-package log verbosity. packagePath=level entries separated by commas.
  --minimal-config                             Uses minimal config with parameters as defined in the spec. (default: false)
  --monitoring-host value                      Host used for listening and responding metrics for prometheus. (default: "127.0.0.1")
  --monitoring-port value                      Port used to listening and respond metrics for Prometheus. (default: 8081)
  --trace-sample-fraction value                Head-sampling ratio applied to every trace started by the process. 1.0 keeps all traces. (default: 0.2)
  --tracing-endpoint value                     OTLP/HTTP endpoint that traces are exported to (e.g. an OpenTelemetry Collector or a Tempo receiver). (default: "http://127.0.0.1:14268/api/traces")
  --tracing-process-name process_name          Name to apply to tracing tag process_name.
  --verbosity value                            Logging verbosity. (trace, debug, info, warn, error, fatal, panic) (default: "info")
  --wallet-dir value                           Path to a wallet directory on-disk for Prysm validator accounts. (default: "/root/.eth2validators/prysm-wallet-v2")
  --wallet-password-file value                 Path to a plain-text, .txt file containing your wallet password.
  
debug OPTIONS:
  --blockprofilerate value      Turns on block profiling with the given rate. (default: 0)
  --memprofilerate value        Turns on memory profiling with the given rate. (default: 524288)
  --mutexprofilefraction value  Turns on mutex profiling with the given rate. (default: 0)
  --pprof                       Enables the pprof HTTP server. (default: false)
  --pprofaddr value             pprof HTTP server listening interface. (default: "127.0.0.1")
  --pprofport value             pprof HTTP server listening port. (default: 6060)
  
rpc OPTIONS:
  --beacon-rest-api-headers value                            Comma-separated list of key value pairs to pass as headers for all HTTP calls to the beacon node. 
                                                               To provide multiple values for the same key, specify the same key for each value. 
                                                               Example: --grpc-headers=key1=value1,key1=value2,key2=value3
  --beacon-rest-api-provider value                           Beacon node REST API provider endpoint. (default: "http://127.0.0.1:3500")
  --beacon-rpc-provider value                                WARNING: The gRPC API will remain the default and fully supported through v8 (expected in 2026) but will be eventually removed in favor of REST API..
                                                               Beacon node RPC provider endpoint. (default: "127.0.0.1:4000")
  --grpc-headers value                                       WARNING: The gRPC API will remain the default and fully supported through v8 (expected in 2026) but will be eventually removed in favor of REST API..
                                                               Comma separated list of key value pairs to pass as gRPC headers for all gRPC calls.
                                                               Example: --grpc-headers=key=value
  --grpc-retries value                                       WARNING: The gRPC API will remain the default and fully supported through v8 (expected in 2026) but will be eventually removed in favor of REST API..
                                                               Number of attempts to retry gRPC requests. (default: 5)
  --grpc-retry-delay value                                   WARNING: The gRPC API will remain the default and fully supported through v8 (expected in 2026) but will be eventually removed in favor of REST API..
                                                               Amount of time between gRPC retry requests. (default: 1s)
  --http-cors-domain value, --grpc-gateway-corsdomain value  Comma separated list of domains from which to accept cross origin requests (browser enforced). (default: "http://localhost:7500,http://127.0.0.1:7500,http://0.0.0.0:7500,http://localhost:4242,http://127.0.0.1:4242,http://localhost:4200,http://0.0.0.0:4242,http://127.0.0.1:4200,http://0.0.0.0:4200,http://localhost:3000,http://0.0.0.0:3000,http://127.0.0.1:3000")
  --http-host value, --grpc-gateway-host value               Host on which the HTTP server runs on. (default: "127.0.0.1")
  --http-port value, --grpc-gateway-port value               Port on which the HTTP server runs on. (default: 7500)
  --rpc                                                      Enables the RPC server for the validator client (without Web UI). (default: false)
  --rpc-host value                                           Host on which the RPC server should listen. (default: "127.0.0.1")
  --rpc-port value                                           RPC port exposed by a validator client. (default: 7000)
  --tls-cert value                                           Certificate for secure gRPC. Pass this and the tls-key flag in order to use gRPC securely.
  
proposer OPTIONS:
  --enable-builder, --enable-validator-registration  Enables builder validator registration APIs for the validator client to update settings
                                                       such as fee recipient and gas limit. This flag is not required if using proposer
                                                       settings config file. (default: false)
  --graffiti value                                   String to include in proposed blocks.
  --graffiti-file value                              Path to a YAML file with graffiti values.
  --proposer-settings-file value                     Sets path to a YAML or JSON file containing validator settings used when proposing blocks such as
                                                       fee recipient and gas limit. File format found in docs.
  --proposer-settings-url value                      Sets URL to a REST endpoint containing validator settings used when proposing blocks such as
                                                       fee recipient and gas limit. File format found in docs
  --stateless                                        Enables stateless block production for Gloas: the validator requests the block and execution payload envelope together and republishes the envelope itself. Works over both the gRPC and REST validator clients. (default: false)
  --suggested-fee-recipient value                    Sets ALL validators' mapping to a suggested eth address to receive gas fees when proposing a block.
                                                       Note that this is only a suggestion when integrating with a Builder API, which may choose to specify
                                                       a different fee recipient as payment for the blocks it builds.For additional setting overrides use the 
                                                       --proposer-settings-file or --proposer-settings-url flags. (default: "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000")
  --suggested-gas-limit value                        Sets gas limit for the builder to use for constructing a payload for all the validators. (default: "60000000")
  --validators-registration-batch-size value         Sets the maximum size for one batch of validator registrations. Use a non-positive value to disable batching. (default: 200)
  
remote signer OPTIONS:
  --validators-external-signer-key-file value, --remote-signer-keys-file value                                                                               A file path used to load remote public validator keys and persist them through restarts.
  --validators-external-signer-public-keys value, --remote-signer-keys value [ --validators-external-signer-public-keys value, --remote-signer-keys value ]  Comma separated list of public keys OR an external url endpoint for the validator to retrieve public keys from for usage with web3signer.
  --validators-external-signer-url value, --remote-signer-url value                                                                                          URL for consensys' web3signer software to use with the Prysm validator client.
  
misc OPTIONS:
  --disable-account-metrics                                         Disables prometheus metrics for validator accounts. Operators with high volumes 
                                                                      of validating keys may wish to disable granular prometheus metrics as it increases
                                                                      the data cardinality. (default: false)
  --disable-duties-polling                                          Disables polling of duties on dependent root changes. (default: false)
  --disable-rewards-penalties-logging                               Disables reward/penalty logging during cluster deployment. (default: false)
  --distributed                                                     To enable the use of prysm validator client in Distributed Validator Cluster (default: false)
  --keymanager-token-file value, --validator-api-bearer-file value  Path to auth token file used for validator apis. (default: "/root/.eth2validators/prysm-wallet-v2/auth-token")
  --max-health-checks value                                         Maximum number of health checks to perform before exiting if not healthy. Set to 0 or a negative number for indefinite checks. (default: 0)
  
features OPTIONS:
  --disable-attest-timely                       Disable validator attesting timely after current block processes. See #8185 for more details. (default: false)
  --disable-duties-v2                           Forces use of get duties endpoint instead of v2. (default: false)
  --dynamic-key-reload-debounce-interval value  (Advanced): Specifies the time duration the validator waits to reload new keys if they have changed on disk.
                                                Can be any type of duration such as 1.5s, 1000ms, 1m. (default: 1s)
  --enable-beacon-rest-api                      (Experimental): Enables of the beacon REST API when querying a beacon node. (default: false)
  --enable-doppelganger                         Enables the validator to perform a doppelganger check. 
                                                  This is not a foolproof method to find duplicate instances in the network. 
                                                  Your validator will still be vulnerable if it is being run in unsafe configurations. (default: false)
  --enable-minimal-slashing-protection          (Experimental): Enables the minimal slashing protection. See EIP-3076 for more details. (default: false)
  --enable-slashing-protection-history-pruning  Enables the pruning of the validator client's slashing protection database. (default: false)
  --holesky                                     Runs Prysm configured for the Holesky test network. (default: false)
  --hoodi                                       Runs Prysm configured for the Hoodi test network. (default: false)
  --mainnet                                     Runs on Ethereum main network. This is the default and can be omitted. (default: true)
  --sepolia                                     Runs Prysm configured for the Sepolia test network. (default: false)
  --web                                         (Work in progress): Enables the web portal for the validator client. (default: false)
  --write-wallet-password-on-web-onboarding     (Danger): Writes the wallet password to the wallet directory on completing Prysm web onboarding.
                                                We recommend against this flag unless you are an advanced user. (default: false)
  
interop OPTIONS:
  --interop-num-validators value  Number of validators to deterministically generate.
                                    Example: --interop-start-index=5 --interop-num-validators=3 would generate keys from index 5 to 7. (default: 0)
  --interop-start-index value     Start index to deterministically generate validator keys when used in combination with --interop-num-validators.
                                    Example: --interop-start-index=5 --interop-num-validators=3 would generate keys from index 5 to 7. (default: 0)
  
deprecated OPTIONS:
```

{/* cli-flags:validator END */}

## `prysmctl` flags

Refer to the [Use `prysmctl`](prysmctl.md) for `prysmctl` download and installation instructions.

{/* cli-flags:prysmctl START — auto-generated by scripts/generate-cli-reference.mjs, do not edit by hand */}

```
NAME:
   prysmctl-v7.1.6-linux-amd64 - A new cli application

USAGE:
   prysmctl-v7.1.6-linux-amd64 [global options] command [command options]

COMMANDS:
   checkpoint-sync, cpt-sync  commands for managing checkpoint sync
   db                         commands to work with the prysm beacon db
   p2p                        commands for interacting with beacon nodes via p2p
   testnet                    commands for dealing with Ethereum beacon chain testnets
   weak-subjectivity, ws      commands dealing with weak subjectivity
   validator, v, sign         commands that affect the state of validators such as exiting or withdrawing
   help, h                    Shows a list of commands or help for one command

GLOBAL OPTIONS:
   --help, -h  show help
```

{/* cli-flags:prysmctl END */}

## Client stats flags

Prysm's client stats service is an optional utility that reports process metrics to third-parties such as block explorers. Refer to our [client stats documentation](/monitoring-alerts-metrics/collect-metrics-with-client-stats.md) for more information.

{/* cli-flags:client-stats START — auto-generated by scripts/generate-cli-reference.mjs, do not edit by hand */}

```
NAME:
   client-stats - daemon to scrape client-stats from prometheus and ship to a remote endpoint
USAGE:
   client-stats [options] command [command options] [arguments...]
   
AUTHOR:
   
   
GLOBAL OPTIONS:
   help, h  Shows a list of commands or help for one command
   
cmd OPTIONS:
  --config-file value  Filepath to a yaml file with flag values.
  --log-file value     Specifies log file name, relative or absolute.
  --log-format value   Specifies log formatting. Supports: text, json, fluentd, journald. (default: "text")
  --verbosity value    Logging verbosity. (trace, debug, info, warn, error, fatal, panic) (default: "info")
  
client-stats OPTIONS:
  --beacon-node-metrics-url value  Full URL to the beacon-node /metrics prometheus endpoint to scrape. eg http://localhost:8080/metrics
  --clientstats-api-url value      Full URL to the client stats endpoint where collected metrics should be sent.
  --scrape-interval value          Frequency of scraping expressed as a duration, eg 2m or 1m5s. (default: 2m0s)
  --validator-metrics-url value    Full URL to the validator /metrics prometheus endpoint to scrape. eg http://localhost:8081/metrics
```

{/* cli-flags:client-stats END */}

## Loading parameters from a YAML file

You can optionally configure Prysm to load flag values from a `.yaml` file. Consider this option if you're looking for a streamlined terminal experience or unique, portable configuration profiles.

The below steps show how place a common Prysm flag into a YAML file, and how to specify the YAML file when Prysm starts up.

### GNU\Linux, Mac, ARM64

1. In your Prysm working directory, create a `.yaml` file and open it in a text editor.

2. Add the following lines to the file before closing and saving:

```sh
datadir: '/data'
```

3. Start the Prysm beacon chain as normal, while specifying the location of the `.yaml` like so:

```sh
./prysm.sh beacon-chain --config-file=/path/to/file.yaml

```
or for a validator like so:

```sh
./prysm.sh validator --config-file=/path/to/file.yaml
```

### Windows

1. In your Prysm working directory, create a `.yaml` file and open it in a text editor.

2. Add the following lines to the file before closing and saving:

```sh
datadir: 'c:\prysm'
```

3. Start the Prysm beacon chain as normal, while specifying the location of the `.yaml` like so:

```sh
.\prysm.bat beacon-chain --config-file=c:\path\to\file.yaml
```

or for a validator like so:

```sh
.\prysm.bat validator --config-file=c:\path\to\file.yaml
```

It is possible to provide additional flags alongside the `.yaml` file, though if conflicting flags are provided, the flag defined in the`.yaml` file will take priority. For example, if the flag `--datadir=/data2` is specified and `datadir: "/data1"` is in the `.yaml` file, Prysm would prioritize writing to `/data1`.
